I want to experiment with narrative framing. Faerie stories are hard to follow -
they're weird, on purpose. You want somebody for the reader to connect with, to
let you know somehow that yes, this is *supposed* to be weird.

==============

Big Mo poked a stick into the fire and let it sit. He flicked the stick back and forth a few times. A tiny ember was visible for a moment, then flickered out. The fire stayed dead.

Tall Mo threw another stick onto the little pile of cold twigs. A puff of ash burped up and then settled over the lumpy phosphorescent moss nearby.

"S' amazing," reflected Weird Mo, "how just tiny bit of glow from moss looks filthier than else under earth. Wouldn't see ash and slime so with no glow."

Tall Mo grunted. Big Mo went through a laborious, gradual process of lowering his bulk and crouching down. He blew on the dead fire from up close. Then he spat a few times, to clear ash from his mouth.

The wet pop and crackle of the Boots on moss came from the darkness. Everybody looked up. Sometimes Small Mo could get onto ledges or into narrow ravines the rest of them couldn't fit, and so sometimes he'd come back with something especially good to eat. It was also why he had the Boots and the Flint. It wouldn't do to get caught again in a crevice nobody else could fit into. Not if you couldn't scare off the big crabs with fire or jump safely over the little ones.

Little Mo dropped the bucket on the ground with a reassuring, heavy thump. Seeing into the bucket, they all groaned. They hadn't kept the fire alive. It'd take an hour to restart, even with the Flint. And frogs were the third-worst raw meat they'd found in the caves.

The things in the bucket weren't regular frogs, but nothing was regular. The caves were full of horrible weird slimy things, and you named them after whatever they seemed most like. If a cave animal had weird double-thumb long hands and a head shaped like a dog's, but also a too-long writhing tongue and muscly hopping back legs... Well, "frog" it was.

Little Mo tossed the rounded, dull Flint to Big Mo, still crouched in front of the cold sticks. Big Mo clicked the Flint to light bits of dryish-moss tinder, while huffing at intervals.

Tall Mo got out the Knife and started chopping frogs. For a mercy, frogs were easy to cut up for cooking. The big back leg muscles were all you could safely eat.

Little Mo kicked off the sodden Boots, shrugged out of his dripping jacket and sat by the non-fire with a wet plop.

"I was hoping," he mused, "that the fire would be going when I got back. Helps you warm back up, a nice fire."

Three pairs of eyes swiveled to glare at him. He shrank a bit.

"Right then, I didn't mean anything by it. Just... Just thinking I'd enjoy a fire later, like."

The eyes returned to their tasks. You didn't manage five years in the caves without staying positive. Staying positive was very, very important. And you didn't complain about what you didn't have.

Weird Mo shuffled out of the shadows with four plates of moss salad. You could eat it without a fire and feel less hungry after. It probably had other benefits. Anything so foul-tasting must be very healthy, for instance.

"Think iss time for a Faerie story."




==============
